This project is completed using Erlang. The client-server multi-chat room is called ChatApp. There are three components
1. chatApp_server.erl
2. chatApp_listener.erl
3. chatApp_client.erl
On the Server side the server socket port is set to default as 8080, but we can provide our port while starting the server. ChatApp server accepts multiple clients, and for the test purpose, localhost IP(IPv4) is used to establish a socket connection. Here server allows Users to Signup themself to the chatroom and then join the multi-user chatroom. Users can send a message privately to other users or broadcast it to one or more users using TCP protocol. Two components chatApp_server.erl and chatApp_listener.erl handles the client and client request. The chatApp_listener accepts the incoming connection request on a listening socket. The component handles the user action and calls server methods to provide the service as per the user action.
Similarly, the Client-side component i.e., chatApp_client.erl, Packets can be sent to the returned socket Socket using send/2. Packets sent from the peer are delivered as messages (unless {active, false} is specified in the options list for the listening socket, in which case packets are retrieved by calling recv/1).
Here the Client/User connects to the server port and can sign up in the chatroom. The server will be displaying the list of active Users' connections and their respective ports. These ports are the channel to send messages to particular users and even broadcast messages to all the active users.
Steps to Run the chatApp.
1. The system needs to have Erlang installed. For the project (Erlang OTP 24) was installed and Vscode was used as an IDE.
2. As previous mentioned the three files
a. chatApp_server.erl
b. chatApp_listener.erl
c. chatApp_client.erl
For all of these erlang files. Their respective .beam file needs to be created. These Beam files are the executable file generated by the Erlang compiler. And these files can be run with the Erlang virtual machine (VM).
If we compare to previous assignment 1. The .class file of java file is similar to the beam file. Here .class files contain bytecode that can run on the Java virtual machine (JVM).
